
nicstat(1)                                                    General Commands Manual                                                    nicstat(1)

NAME
       nicstat, enicstat - print network traffic statistics
                         - 输出网络流量统计

SYNOPSIS
       nicstat [-hvnsxpztualkMU] [-iinterface] [-Sint:mbps[fd|hd]] [interval [count]]

       enicstat <same options & operands>

DESCRIPTION
       nicstat prints out network statistics for all network cards (NICs), including packets, kilobytes per second, average packet sizes and more.
       nicstat 打印所有网卡的网卡统计(NICs)，包括报文，每秒数据量，平均报文大小等.

OPTIONS
       -h        Display brief usage information (help).
       		 显示简短的帮助信息(help)

       -v        Display nicstat version (and additional fields when combined with '-l')
       		 显示nicstat 版本信息(跟'-l' 一起使用的时候显示附加信息)

       -n        Show statistics for non-local (i.e. non-loopback) interfaces only.
       		 显示非本地接口的统计信息.

       -s        Display summary output - just the amount of data received (read) and transmitted (written).
                 显示缩略版输出 - 只有接收数据和发送数据

       -x        Display extended output.  See OUTPUT section for details.
       		 显示拓展输出，OUTPUT 查看详细信息.

       -U        Display  separate  read and write utilization statistics. This affects the default, extended (-x) and all (-a) format outputs. For
                 the default format the "Sat" statistic is dropped to fit the output in 80 columns.
		 显示独立的读写利用率统计。

       -M        Display interface throughput statistics in Mbps (megabits per second), instead of the default KB/s (kilobytes per second).
       		 以兆为单位显示接口吞吐统计.

                 NOTE - interface statistics are reported to operating systems in bytes.  nicstat does not know if Ethernet or other hardware over‐
                 heads are included in the statistic on each platform.

       -p        Display  output  in  parseable  format.   This  outputs  one line per interface, in the following formats (which correspond to the
                 default, -x, -t and -u options; respectively):
	         以该格式显示输出.

              time:In:rKB/s:wKB/s:rPk/s:wPk/s:%Util:Sat
              time:In:rKB/s:wKB/s:rPk/s:wPk/s:%Util:Sat:IErr:OErr:Coll:NoCP:Defer
              time:TCP:InKB:OutKB:InSeg:OutSeg:Reset:AttF:%ReTX:InConn:OutCon:Drops
              time:UDP:InDG:OutDG:InErr:OutErr

                 where time is the number of seconds since midnight, Jan 1 1970 (UST) and the other fields are as described in the  OUTPUT  section
                 below.

                 NOTE - throughput statistics are always in KB/s (kilbytes per second) for parseable formats, even if the "-M" flag has been speci‐
                 fied.

       -z        Skip interfaces for which there was zero traffic for the sample period.

       -t        Show TCP statistics.
       		 显示TCP统计信息

       -u        Show UDP statistics.
       		 显示UDP统计信息

       -a        Equvalent to '-x -t -u'.

       -l        Just list interfaces.
       		 仅仅是列出所有接口

       -iinterface[,interface...]
                 Show statistics for only the interface(s) listed.  Multiple interfaces can be listed, separated by commas (,).
		 显示列出的接口信息,多个接口之间以逗号间隔。

       -Sint:speed[fd|hd]
                 (Linux only).  Specify the speed (and optionally duplex mode) of one or more interfaces.  The given speed(s) are in  megabits/sec‐
                 ond.   The  duplex  mode will default to "full" unless a suffix beginning with "h" or "H" is specified.  Speed and duplex mode are
                 obtained automatically on Solaris using the "ifspeed" and "link_duplex" kstat values.
		 指定接口的速度和双工模式.

       -k        (Solaris only).  Search for active network interfaces by looking for kstat "link_state" statistics with a value  of  1.   This  is
                 only  of  value on systems running Solaris 10 (or early releases of Solaris 11 Express), with Exclusive IP Zones, where the inter‐
                 faces given to an Exclusive IP Zone are not otherwise visible.  If you are running Solaris 9  (or  earlier),  or  Solaris  11  (or
                 later) you do not need this option.

OPERANDS
       interval  Specifies the number of seconds between samples.
       		 指定采样时间的秒数

       count     Specifies  the number of times that the statistics are repeated.  If no count is specified, nicstat will repeat statistics indefi‐
                 nitely.
		 指定采样次数

OUTPUT
       The fields of nicstat's display are:

       Time      The time corresponding to the end of the sample shown, in HH:MM:SS format (24-hour clock).

       Int       The interface name.

       rKB/s, InKB
                 Kilobytes/second read (received).

       wKB/s, OutKB
                 Kilobytes/second written (transmitted).

       rMbps, RdMbps
                 Megabits/second read (received).

       wMbps, WrMbps
                 Megabits/second written (transmitted).

       rPk/s, InSeg, InDG
                 Packets (TCP Segments, UDP Datagrams)/second read (received).

       wPk/s, OutSeg, OutDG
                 Packets (TCP Segments, UDP Datagrams)/second written (transmitted).

       rAvs      Average size of packets read (received).

       wAvs      Average size of packets written (transmitted).

       %Util     Percentage utilization of the interface.  For full-duplex interfaces, this is the greater of rKB/s or wKB/s as a percentage of the
                 interface speed.  For half-duplex interfaces, rKB/s and wKB/s are summed.
		 接口利用率百分比

       %rUtil, %wUtil
                 Percentage utilization for bytes read and written, respectively.
		 利用率百分比

       Sat       Saturation.   This  the number of errors/second seen for the interface - an indicator the interface may be approaching saturation.
                 This statistic is combined from a number of kernel statistics.  It is recommended to use the '-x' option to  see  more  individual
                 statistics (those mentioned below) when attempting to diagnose a network issue.
		 饱和度

       IErr      Packets received that could not be processed because they contained errors
       		 接收到的报文但是因为error没能处理的数量

       OErr      Packets that were not successfully transmitted because of errors

       Coll      Ethernet collisions during transmit.
       		 发送时候的以太冲突

       NoCP      No-can-puts.   This  is when an incoming packet can not be put to the process reading the socket.  This suggests the local process
                 is unable to process incoming packets in a timely manner.
		 接收到但是不能被进程处理的报文

       Defer     Defer Transmits.  Packets without collisions where first transmit attempt was delayed because the medium was busy.
       		 推迟发送

       Reset     tcpEstabResets. The number of times TCP connections have made a direct transition to the CLOSED state from either the  ESTABLISHED
                 state or the CLOSE-WAIT state.

       AttF      tcpAttemptFails  - The number of times that TCP connections have made a direct transition to the CLOSED state from either the SYN-
                 SENT state or the SYN-RCVD state, plus the number of times TCP connections have made a direct transition to the LISTEN state  from
                 the SYN-RCVD state.

       %ReTX     Percentage  of  TCP  segments  retransmitted  -  that is, the number of TCP segments transmitted containing one or more previously
                 transmitted octets.

       InConn    tcpPassiveOpens - The number of times that TCP connections have made a direct transition to the SYN-RCVD  state  from  the  LISTEN
                 state.

       OutCon    tcpActiveOpens  -  The  number  of  times that TCP connections have made a direct transition to the SYN-SENT state from the CLOSED
                 state.

       Drops     tcpHalfOpenDrop + tcpListenDrop + tcpListenDropQ0.

       tcpListenDrop and tcpListenDropQ0 - Number of connections dropped from the completed  connection  queue  and  incomplete  connection  queue,
       respectively.  tcpHalfOpenDrops - Number of connections dropped after the initial SYN packet was received.

       The  first set of statistics printed are averages since system boot.  If no interval operand is specified, or a count value of "1" is speci‐
       fied, this will be the only sample printed.

EXAMPLES
       Print average statistics from boot time to now only:

            $ nicstat

       Print statistics for all interfaces, every 3 seconds:

            $ nicstat 3

       Print statistics for all interfaces, every 5 seconds, finishing after 10 samples:

            $ nicstat 5 10

       Print statistics every 3 seconds, only for interfaces "hme0" and "hme1":

            $ nicstat -i hme0,hme1 3

       Print statistics for non-local interfaces, setting speed of "eth0" and "eth1" to 10mbps/half-duplex and 1000mbps/full-duplex, respectively:

            $ nicstat -n -S eth0:10h,eth1:1000 5

SEE ALSO
       netstat(1M) kstat(1M), kstat(3KSTAT), mibiisa(1M), ethtool(8)

       "nicstat -  the  Solaris  and  Linux  Network  Monitoring  Tool  You  Did  Not  Know  You  Needed"  -http://blogs.oracle.com/timc/entry/nic‐
       stat_the_solaris_and_linux

NOTES
       On Linux, the NoCP, Defer, TCP InKB, and TCP OutKB statistics are always reported as zero.

       The  way  that  saturation  is reported is a best effort, as there is no standardized naming to capture all errors related to an interface's
       inability to receive or transmit a packet.  Monitoring %Util and packet rates, along with an understanding of the specific NICs may be  more
       useful in judging whether you are nearing saturation.

       The  -S  option  is  provided for the Linux edition as nicstat requires super-user privilege to obtain speed and duplex mode information for
       interfaces.  If you are unable to set up nicstat as setuid-root, a script named enicstat is available, which uses the ethtool  utility  then
       calls nicstat with an -S value.  ethtool itself requires super-user privilege for this to work.

4th Berkeley Distribution                                           27 Jan 2014                                                          nicstat(1)
