TASKSET(1)                                                         User Commands                                                         TASKSET(1)

NAME
       taskset - set or retrieve a process's CPU affinity
               - 设置或恢复CPU亲和性

SYNOPSIS
       taskset [options] mask command [argument...]
       taskset [options] -p [mask] pid

DESCRIPTION
       taskset  is  used to set or retrieve the CPU affinity of a running process given its pid, or to launch a new command with a given CPU affin‐
       ity.  CPU affinity is a scheduler property that "bonds" a process to a given set of CPUs on the system.  The Linux scheduler will honor  the
       given  CPU  affinity  and the process will not run on any other CPUs.  Note that the Linux scheduler also supports natural CPU affinity: the
       scheduler attempts to keep processes on the same CPU as long as practical for performance reasons.  Therefore, forcing a specific CPU affin‐
       ity is useful only in certain applications.
       taskset 用于设置或者获取给定进程号的CPU亲和性，或者以特定的CPU亲和性的运行新的命令。CPU亲和性是一种调度属性，linux调度器或倾向与在给定CPU上
       运行命令。Linux调度器同样支持一种天然的CPU亲和性：为了性能原因调度器会尽量在同一个CPU上运行某个进程。因此，强制指定特定的CPU亲和性只在特定的
       进程上有用。

       The  CPU  affinity  is  represented as a bitmask, with the lowest order bit corresponding to the first logical CPU and the highest order bit
       corresponding to the last logical CPU.  Not all CPUs may exist on a given system but a mask may specify  more  CPUs  than  are  present.   A
       retrieved  mask  will  reflect  only the bits that correspond to CPUs physically on the system.  If an invalid mask is given (i.e., one that
       corresponds to no valid CPUs on the current system) an error is returned.  The masks may be specified in  hexadecimal  (with  or  without  a
       leading "0x"), or as a CPU list with the --cpu-list option.  For example,
       CPU亲和性的表示方式，可以通过16进制掩码来表示；

           0x00000001  is processor #0,

           0x00000003  is processors #0 and #1,

           0xFFFFFFFF  is processors #0 through #31,

           32          is processors #1, #4, and #5,
                       此处虽然没有加0x，依然通过16进制方式解释

           --cpu-list 0-2,6
                       is processors #0, #1, #2, and #6.

       When taskset returns, it is guaranteed that the given program has been scheduled to a legal CPU.
       taskset 返回是，程序确保给定的进程已经调度到一个合法的CPU上了。

OPTIONS
       -a, --all-tasks
              Set or retrieve the CPU affinity of all the tasks (threads) for a given PID.
	      设置或者恢复给定PID的所有任务(线程)的CPU亲和性
	      TODO: 意思是如果一个进程中有多个线程，通过taskset默认只会修改主线程，不会修改其他线程？

       -c, --cpu-list
              Interpret  mask  as  numerical list of processors instead of a bitmask.  Numbers are separated by commas and may include ranges.  For
              example: 0,5,8-11.

       -p, --pid
              Operate on an existing PID and do not launch a new task.
	      操作一个已经存在的PID，并不启动新的任务。

       -V, --version
              Display version information and exit.

       -h, --help
              Display help text and exit.

USAGE
       The default behavior is to run a new command with a given affinity mask:
              taskset mask command [arguments]

       You can also retrieve the CPU affinity of an existing task:
       可以通过下面的方式获取给定进程的CPU亲和性:
              taskset -p pid

       Or set it:
              taskset -p mask pid

PERMISSIONS
       A user can change the CPU affinity of a process belonging to the same user.  A user must possess CAP_SYS_NICE to change the CPU affinity  of
       a process belonging to another user.  A user can retrieve the affinity mask of any process.
       用户只能改变属于自己的进程的CPU亲和性；如果用户想要改变其他用户进程的CPU亲和性必须要有CAP_SYS_NICE 权限；用户可以获取其他用户进程的CPU亲和i
       性.

SEE ALSO
       chrt(1), nice(1), renice(1), sched_getaffinity(2), sched_setaffinity(2)

       See sched(7) for a description of the Linux scheduling scheme.

AUTHOR
       Written by Robert M. Love.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright  ©  2004  Robert  M. Love.  This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MER‐
       CHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

AVAILABILITY
       The taskset command is part of the util-linux package and is available from https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.

util-linux                                                          August 2014                                                          TASKSET(1)
